GWEN IFILL: Good evening. I'm
Gwen Ifill. Judy Woodruff is
away.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
Deadly blasts rock Beirut, as
the Islamic State claims
responsibility
for two suicide bombs
in Lebanon's capital.
Plus, Kurdish forces take over a
major ISIS route in Iraq in an
effort to reclaim the
town of Sinjar.
Also ahead: One public school in
Harlem is making educators
wonder, can students learn
best with more time on computers
and less help from teachers?
SUGATA MITRA, Education Reform
Advocate: Could it be that we
don't need to go to school at
all? Could it be that at the
point in time when you need to
know something, you can find
out in two minutes? Could it be
that we're heading towards or
may be in a future where
knowing is obsolete?
GWEN IFILL: And Oscar-winning
actress Juliette Binoche talks
about some unusual turns in
her career and taking
on Greek tragedy.
All that and more on
tonight's "PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
GWEN IFILL: A new front opened
today in the war with no
apparent end in sight. Kurdish
forces in Iraq, with U.S.
support, launched an assault on
a key city that links Islamic
State holdings in two countries.
American airstrikes hammered
Sinjar on Iraq's far
northwestern border with Syria,
as the
Kurdish Peshmerga ground
force began its offensive.
MAN (through translator): It
started just now. The situation
so far is good. There are
continuous airstrikes on them.
We are also hitting them with
artillery.
GWEN IFILL: The objective, to
capture not only the city, but a
key supply route, Highway
47. It connects the Islamic
State's makeshift capital in
Raqqa, Syria, to outposts in
Iraq,
including Mosul.
We reached Rukmini Callimachi of
The New York Times late today,
just after she returned
from the front lines at Sinjar.
RUKMINI CALLIMACHI, The New York
Times: Within the first couple
of hours of the offensive
this morning, the Peshmerga were
able to get down onto that
highway from the east and from
the west and essentially
cut it off.
They were surprised at the lack
of resistance. And we don't know
if there's a surprise in
store. One Peshmerga commander
was telling me that, through his
binoculars, he could
look out and see ISIS
fighters fleeing on foot.
My impression of ISIS is that
they're incredibly strong
against local forces; they're
incredibly
strong against the Iraqi army.
They're not so strong against
U.S. airstrikes and a Kurdish
force that is being flanked
by U.S. special forces.
GWEN IFILL: In Washington,
Pentagon spokesman Peter Cook
confirmed American troops are at
Sinjar in support of the Kurdish
offensive, but are not taking
part in direct combat.
PETER COOK, Pentagon Press
Secretary: They are advising
directly the Iraqi Kurdish
forces
that are there on site who are
engaging this operation, leading
this operation. And the
U.S. advisers there are working
directly with the Peshmerga
forces to determine the most
effective locations
for those airstrikes.
GWEN IFILL: Islamic State
fighters conquered Sinjar and
surrounding areas in the summer
of 2014. Hundreds of thousands
of its inhabitants from the
Yazidi religious sect fled, but
many
thousands were killed, raped and
systematically enslaved. The
attack and atrocities moved
President Obama to begin a
bombing campaign in Iraq that
quickly extended into Syria.
JOHN KERRY, U.S. Secretary of
State: Whatever questions one
might have about the content
about our policy, there should
be no doubt about the effort
made to consider every single
option for ending this crisis.
GWEN IFILL: Today, Secretary of
State Kerry defended the Syria
strategy. He spoke at the
U.S. Institute of Peace, ahead
of renewed multinational talks
this Saturday in Vienna.
Those will include Syrian
President Bashar Assad's
principal allies, Russia and
Iran.
His fate is a major
point of division.
JOHN KERRY: Asking the
opposition to trust Assad or to
accept Assad's leadership is
simply
not a reasonable request. And it
is literally, therefore, a
nonstarter. I cannot say this
afternoon that we are on the
threshold of a comprehensive
agreement, no. There remains
a lot of work to be done.
GWEN IFILL: Kerry said each
party now has a responsibility
-- quote -- "not to dig in
our heels, but to make
the bleeding stop."
Two suicide bombers killed at
least 43 people and wounded
nearly 200 more in Lebanon
today.
The blasts occurred just outside
the capital, Beirut, in a suburb
considered a stronghold
of Hezbollah. The Shiite
militant group has close ties to
Iran and Syria.
At the scene, people pulled
victims from under wreckage and
shattered glass strewn across
the streets. The Islamic State
group quickly claimed
responsibility for the attack.
Protests spread across
Afghanistan today, amid demands
for greater security, galvanized
by a brutal crime. Demonstrators
from multiple ethnic and
sectarian groups turned out in
three provinces to condemn the
beheadings of seven Shiite
Hazaras. It came a day after
10,000 people protested
the killings in Kabul.
Meanwhile, in Greece, nearly
35,000 striking public workers
marched against new tax hikes
and spending cuts mandated by
the country's latest bailout.
Tensions boiled over in Athens,
where some in the crowd hurled
Molotov cocktails at police.
Officers fired back with tear
gas
and stun grenades, but the
protesters insisted they're not
going away.
MAN (through translator): It
might sound a little weird, but
the international lenders
are asking for blood. They're
not asking to be reimbursed.
They're seeking to destroy
us, to make us disappear. Why?
We didn't bother anyone. I
believe we're sending a message
right now that we support the
entire workers movement.
GWEN IFILL: The general strike
is the first since Prime
Minister Alexis Tsipras and his
left-wing government came
to power in January.
European leaders pledged nearly
$2 billion to African nations
today to stem the flow
of migrants and take back those
who don't qualify for asylum.
The two sides wound up
a meeting in Malta, and agreed
on emergency aid to address
violence and food shortages.
But the president of Niger
argued it's just scratching the
surface.
MUHAMMADU BUHARI, Nigerian
President (through translator):
It's not enough. It's far from
being enough. The needs are
enormous. That's why we're
calling on other partners to
participate
in the setting up of trust
funds. And beyond that, what we
hope for, it's not only in the
form of public development aid.
We hope for reform in worldwide
governance.
GWEN IFILL: Talk of the aid plan
came amid new moves by several
nations to begin tightening
their borders. We will focus on
the situation in one of those
countries, Sweden, later in
the program.
Back in this country, the
Department of Housing and Urban
Development is calling for a ban
on smoking in all public
housing. A rule proposed today
would affect more than 940,000
units.
HUD estimates it will protect
the health of 760,000 children
and save more than $150 million
a year in medical costs,
repairs and preventable fires.
Students at more than a hundred
U.S. colleges and universities
rallied today against mounting
debt. There were demonstrations
from Philadelphia to Hawaii.
Protesters called for free
tuition
at public universities, and
cancellation of student loan
debt. It was part of an event
dubbed the Million
Student March.
And on Wall Street, a new slump
in prices for oil and other
commodities pushed stocks
sharply lower. The Dow Jones
industrial average lost more
than 250 points to close below
17450.
The Nasdaq fell nearly 62
points, and the S&P 500 dropped
29.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
offensive speech vs. free
speech, the debate now consuming
some college campuses; a culture
clash for refugees in Sweden;
students learn without
teachers, and much more.
Marches and demonstrations at
Missouri and other universities
define a season of unrest
on many college campuses. And
the response to those protests
has stirred fresh questions
about how much
speech is too much.
Protests against racial
incidents drew the spotlight
this week at the University of
Missouri,
where the system president
resigned under fire.
Celebrations erupted and
university
police called for reporting
hateful or hurtful speech,
including descriptions and even
pictures
of the speakers.
But conservatives and civil
libertarians objected, and the
system's new interim head, who
recalled
his own days as a student
protester, addressed the issue
today.
MIKE MIDDLETON, Interim
President, University of
Missouri System: If you're
asking in the
context of the First Amendment
and free speech issues, that's a
very delicate balance. Both
are essential to our way of life
in this country. And the trick
is to find that balance, that
point at which you are
accommodating both interests as
much as you can.
GWEN IFILL: Similar concerns
were on display at Yale,
especially after a professor
condemned
a dean's warning against
offensive Halloween costumes.
She complained that colleges are
becoming -- quote --
"places of censure."
WOMAN: Be quiet!
GWEN IFILL: That led to a
shouting match last week between
a student and the professor's
husband, a Yale administrator.
WOMAN: It is not about creating
an intellectual space. It is
not! Do you understand that?
It's about creating a home here.
GWEN IFILL: A similar uproar
broke out at California's
Claremont McKenna College over
racially insensitive Halloween
apparel. And there were calls at
Vanderbilt in Nashville
to suspend a professor who wrote
an op-ed deemed intolerant.
Balanced against the speech
concerns are growing protests,
like this one yesterday at
Ithaca
College in Upstate New York over
the use of the word savage to
describe a black speaker
at a campus event. And students
nationwide are now taking to
social media, sharing their
stories with the hashtag
#blackoncampus.
We explore what's the proper
role of free speech, what goes
too far, and how to strike
that balance.
Greg Lukianoff is the CEO of the
Foundation for Individual Rights
in Education. He is
also the co-author of the recent
"Atlantic" magazine cover story
titled "The Coddling
of the American Mind." And
Jelani Cobb is an associate
professor of history at the
University
of Connecticut, and a staff
writer for "The New Yorker"
magazine. His most recent
article
is "Race and the Free
Speech Diversion."
Jelani Cobb, Professor Cobb, I
want to start by asking you,
what do you think is the fine
line, or is it a fine line at
all, between free speech and
hate speech?
JELANI COBB, University of
Connecticut: Well, it's
interesting. My article wasn't
even really
dealing with the question of
hate speech. It was really
dealing with free speech as
a virtue, as an ideal, but a way
in which it was being cynically
deployed on campuses
to actually avoid talking
about racial issues.
And so we have seen Missouri and
Yale, and the students who have
been reacting to racial
crises on their campuses. And
instead of kind of talking about
what's happened to them,
the conversation devolved
immediately into a conversation
about the First Amendment.
I think that was what I was
responding to. And, of course,
there is such a thing as hate
speech and I think that there's
such a thing as free speech. And
I think there are probably
a thousand different ways in
which people differentiate that,
but I don't think that
we should go to the kind of
absurdist argument, where --
that anything that someone says
that
is remotely, possibly offensive
can be deployed against actual,
like, legitimately, objectively
things that are happening
on college campuses.
GWEN IFILL: So, Greg, do you
agree that this is a question of
deflection?
GREG LUKIANOFF, CEO, Foundation
for Individual Rights in
Education: I don't -- I think
it's
unfair to call this is a
diversion, because if you look
at the Yale case -- and I was
actually on Yale's campus this
time last week -- the two
professors -- one lecturer, one
professor who were involved in
this, Erika Christakis and
Nicholas Christakis, Erika
had sent an e-mail to her
students, in my opinion, very
thoughtfully criticizing the
idea that the university should
be telling students how they
dress for Halloween.
Now, the context for that is
universities have been telling
students for years not to
wear offensive costumes, even
Syracuse University creepily
warning students that they will
be
brought up on judicial charges
and essentially forced to strip
if they are found wearing
offensive clothes.
So I thought this was a very
thoughtful e-mail. And then what
ended up happening, and I know
that this ended up being the
focal point for a lot of other
tensions that were going on,
on campus, but I was there for
the confrontation with students.
And there were dozens of
students
surrounding Nicholas Christakis
in the courtyard of the
dormitory.
GWEN IFILL: We just
saw that event, yes.
GREG LUKIANOFF: And it
definitely something where it
was very much directed at Erika.
And so, at the same time people
are saying this is a diversion,
I am perfectly happy
to move on to this case as long
as I know that Erika Christakis
and Nicholas Christakis'
job are safe. But when they made
a statement about -- when Yale
made a statement about
freedom of speech at Yale, they
mentioned nothing about the
Christakises.
GWEN IFILL: Well, let me ask.
You are in Connecticut, not at
Yale, but the University of
Connecticut. And you have been
following also the University of
Missouri case and talking to
people on both campuses,
Jelani Cobb.
What do you think about that?
How much of this was speaking to
larger ongoing problems,
and this question of free speech
was just an example, an excuse
to get to them?
JELANI COBB: Sure.
When I have talked to people, I
have talked to people at
Missouri. I have talked to
students
at Yale. I have talked to some
people who are employed as Yale
University as well. And
one of the things that they --
the commonalities there is that
all these people said that these
were simply kind of
last straws, events.
And so the Christakis event,
outside of the context in which
people are actually dealing
with hostile racial incidents
there, it makes it seen as if
it's kind of an absurdist
reaction
by students who are
hypersensitive.
Now, if I could actually make
one other point about Mr.
Lukianoff's article, "The
Coddling
of the American Mind," they
devote -- and this is about a
5,000-word article, but it
-- they devote a great deal of
attention to the ways that
students kind of catastrophize,
I think is the term they use,
routine slights, so they engage
in emotional reasoning, and
all these things which are
really tantamount to a sort of
psychological study of the
offended.
But nowhere in there do they
actually talk about racism, that
people actually experience
racial incidents in which a
rational response would be to be
offended or to believe that
this institution is perhaps not
the place for you or to believe
that you are perhaps
in a hostile environment.
GWEN IFILL: Let me allow
Mr. Lukianoff to respond.
GREG LUKIANOFF: Well, actually,
the catastrophizing we talked
about -- and it was closer to a
9,000-word article -- was
administrators catastrophizing.
And my point in the article was
talking about how, in K-12 and
in college, we have been
teaching a generation of
students that smart people
overreact to relatively small
slights.
And I talk about examples of a
professor who was suspended
because he posted a picture
of his daughter wearing a
"Game of Thrones" T-shirt.
GWEN IFILL: Let me give
you both another example.
There's an online forum called
Yik Yak where lots of
conversation happens.
GREG LUKIANOFF: Yes.
GWEN IFILL: And I saw online
today a young woman who was
wearing a copy of a posting
which read this way. This is at
USC: "I am confused by black
students without USC athletics
backpacks."
Is that something that, in your
definition of this, she should
be -- she is overreacting
to, to be offended by?
GREG LUKIANOFF: I think that's
absolutely obnoxious. And I
think if someone were to
protest that, we would have
their backs on protesting it.
GWEN IFILL: But if the president
of that college then didn't
respond in the way she wanted,
Jelani Cobb, what then?
(CROSSTALK)
JELANI COBB: I think what then
happens is what we have seen on
multiple campuses since
then.
I think one of the other
dynamics that was also common in
these places was that they
felt that the administration did
not hear them, that the protests
were kind of a last-ditch
effort, the culmination of lots
of attempts to get the attention
of people who had official
authority that had fallen short.
And one other thing that I want
to make clear about this is that
we can kind of take absurdist
examples -- there are plenty of
them -- for anything that we
want to talk about. And what
we do is an injustice. We skew
the perception of this actual
legitimate issue by simply
going, let's take the example of
someone who is fired the "Game
of Thrones" T-shirt.
Let's not take the example of
Yik Yak being a forum for people
to make horrible, harassing
and racial death threats and so
on. And those are actually part
of the same spectrum. So,
if we're going to have this
conversation, we need to talk
about the entire spectrum
of a sense of language and
behavior that is being -- that
is occurring on college
campuses.
GREG LUKIANOFF: Well, let's do
that then and let's talk about a
case where people might
disagree -- but just came down
in the last couple of hours.
Steven Salaita was a -- a
pro-Palestinian professor who
got a job at University of
Illinois,
Urbana-Champaign, where he --
and he was offered a job and
everything was a go. He moved
his
family there.
And he was fired for sending out
offensive -- what were
considered to be offensive
tweets
about -- that were pro -- that
were anti-Israeli. And he just
settled his case for close to
a million dollars just in
the past couple of hours.
So, to me, free speech, First
Amendment -- I'm a First
Amendment lawyer. I deal with
cases,
sometimes tough, sometimes --
and an awful lot of ridiculous
cases, not a small number,
but also ones that are very
dreadfully serious, like the
Salaita case, where someone was
essentially
fired for his unpopular opinion.
GWEN IFILL: Was the University
of Missouri case not dreadfully
serious?
GREG LUKIANOFF: Well, the
University of Missouri case, the
angle that I was the most
concerned
about in that one was the
stopping of the student press,
and particularly for a
journalism
professor herself to be one of
the people pushing, trying to
prevent someone was reporting
the case.
That's distressing to those of
us who care about freedom of the
press.
GWEN IFILL: There's so much more
we could go on this.
Unfortunately, this is all that
we have the time for.
GWEN IFILL: Jelani Cobb at the
University of Connecticut and
Greg Lukianoff at the Foundation
for Individual Rights in
Education, thank you both very
much.
GREG LUKIANOFF:
Thanks for having me.
GWEN IFILL: The conversation
continues tomorrow night, with
the latest in our Race Matters
solutions series. Charlayne
Hunter-Gault sits down with a
professor who focuses on a form
of everyday racism called
micro-aggressions.
After declaring that its welfare
system was collapsing under the
strain of up to 200,000
refugees, Sweden today became
the latest European country to
impose border controls. The
nation
has accepted more refugees per
capita than any other country on
the continent. But its
appeals to other European
nations to share the burden have
been largely ignored.
Special correspondent
Malcolm Brabant reports.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Lunchtime today
at Hyllie, the first station in
Sweden across the bridge
from Denmark, and police begin
border controls over concerns
that the huge refugee influx
is endangering law and order and
the country's internal security.
MAN: You don't have any I.D.?
MAN: No.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Sweden's
increased security has put
another nail in the coffin of
the
Schengen system, which is
supposed to guarantee complete
freedom of movement within most
of
the E.U., although police
spokeswoman Ewa Westford played
down the significance.
EWA-GUN WESTFORD, Police
Spokeswoman: We are rather a
little bit nervous and a little
bit
how should we do it, is it all
right? And we think, yes,
because Sweden would like to
have a human police, so we are
not going into the trains and
blah, blah, blah.
We are going into the trains and
say hello and be very polite. We
are looking for people
who will come to Sweden and look
for asylum. We are looking for
people who have I.D. cards.
And so they should be
allowed to come here.
WOMAN: Who wants to
seek asylum, freedom?
MALCOLM BRABANT: These people
escorted off the train were
being helped seek asylum, even
though many of them didn't seem
to understand the word. This is
only supposed to be a temporary
measure lasting no more than 10
days, but the government does
have the ability to be
able to extend it if it wants.
It's bound to cause panic
amongst refugees along on the
trail stretching back to Turkey.
And the question they will be
asking is, is this the start of
the domino effect? Are other
countries along the line now
also going to institute border
controls?
In Malmo, Sweden's most
ethnically diverse city, the new
controls has been welcomed by
retired police chief Torsten
Elopsson, formerly in charge of
criminal intelligence.
TORSTEN ELOPSSON, Retired Police
Chief: We don't have the
capacity to take in that many
people that we are at the
moment. The public services are
overloaded. You have the social
workers that are down on their
knees. You have the education
system that is challenged.
You have job opportunities that
are very low. Right now, we
don't know actually who is
coming
into the country. They just
vanish, disappear. We don't have
any control over the situation
in that sense. What will happen
to those people that are living
here illegally? They have
to support themselves one way or
the other. The fear is that you
will have more criminality,
more social disorder.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Refugees
expecting to start their new
lives in the bustling Swedish
metropolis
face disappointment. For
thousands, their first homes
will be tents like these deep
in the countryside of one of the
coldest countries on earth, and
the Swedes have delayed erecting
heated and insulated tents
because of planning commission
concerns.
In the past year, anti-immigrant
extremists have set fire to more
than 20 places across
Sweden that either housed
refugees or were intended as
temporary shelters. The
country's
migration board is now refusing
to say where it will accommodate
newcomers because of the
fear of arson.
Despite ministers saying that
Sweden is on the verge of
collapse, Hillevi Larsson, who
represents Malmo in Parliament,
remains upbeat about her
nation's generosity toward
refugees.
HILLEVI LARSSON, Social Democrat
M.P.: Absolutely convinced that
we can do it, because we have
the experiences from the '90s,
when we took many refugees in a
short time, so we have
learned from that, and now we
have many old people. Somebody
has to support them, and
now we have many refugees coming
who are young, well-educated
people. So I think they could
really benefit the
Swedish economy.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Don't you think
Sweden and Germany have really
made a huge mistake in
opening the doors wide open?
Because you have sent a signal
to every person who is
disenfranchised
around the world that Europe is
wide open, and it's showing that
it can't cope.
HILLEVI LARSSON: No, I think
it's is the opposite. I think
that will send a message to
other
countries that they also
have to take responsibility.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Another
station, another country, more
refugees and migrants. This
is the Rostock in Northern
Germany, the end of the line on
the Baltic Sea coast, a port
city with ferry links to Sweden.
Actor Tobias Hamann is one of
dozens of volunteers helping to
speed the passengers on their
way
north.
TOBIAS HAMANN, Actor: Many of
them want to hurry. They are
afraid that they will close
the doors totally to Sweden.
They all want to be very quick.
And they -- sometimes they
are a little bit afraid that
they won't make it in time
because there are not too many
places on the ferries.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Fighting
between the Taliban and the
national army in the Afghan city
of
Kunduz has driven this family of
seven to seek refuge in
Scandinavia. The family
spokesman
is 17-year-old Qais Ahmadiar.
QAIS AHMADIAR, Refugee: We want
to go to Sweden because I feel
they're -- I feel good here,
and also our brother and
family is also here.
MALCOLM BRABANT: This was one of
the last ferries to leave
Rostock before the Swedish
government tightened
its borders.
The Swedes have told refugees
that they should consider
staying in Germany or elsewhere,
because they can't be guaranteed
accommodation. But the message
has not filtered downer the
line. Keeping a keen watch on
Sweden's crisis is Marcus Knuth,
the integration spokesman
for the center-right Danish
government, which has slashed
welfare benefits and tightened
the rules governing family
reunification in order to make
the country less attractive
to refugees.
Sweden is going to be asking
other nations to take its
migrants. Will you take them?
MARCUS KNUTH, Danish Government
Official: No, because we think
Sweden has basically
put itself in the situation that
they're in. I think it's a bit
ironic that first they
say to the world's refugees come
here, and then when they receive
close to 200,000, their
system collapses and then they
say, well, we don't want them
anyway, now other European
countries need to take them.
We have taken our fair share of
the burden and we will continue
to do so, but Sweden
has put itself in the
situation that they're in.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Politicians
from the Danish People's Party
like Soren Espersen determine
whether the minority government
in Copenhagen survives or falls.
Espersen and his party
are angry that the Danish prime
minister has so far ruled out
introducing border controls
as well.
SOREN ESPERSEN, Danish People's
Party: I believe that Europe is
in total chaos. Germany, Sweden,
the two countries that's mainly
caused this problem, and now
Sweden, of course, introducing
border control, it will mean
that we have to do the same,
but, unfortunately, our prime
minister behaves like an
ostrich, like so many other
political leaders in Europe do
at the moment.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Back in
Rostock, there is acute
awareness that Swede's new
measures
could lead to more refugees
requiring shelter on the city's
dime.
But Mayor Roland Methling is a
staunch advocate of Germany's
open door policy to migrants.
ROLAND METHLING, Mayor of
Rostock, Germany: Yes, it would
be a German problem. That would
be a European problem if Sweden
were to close their own borders.
I'm sure we can solve this
problem, not only in Rostock,
but you have to solve it in
Germany.
But at least we can solve this
problem only if we could find a
common way in Europe and
at least we have to find a
common way, and not only in
Europe. We have to find the
common
way with the United States, with
Russia, with China. And only in
this combination we could
build up a future to every
people or this world. Everybody
has a right to live in a
human world.
MALCOLM BRABANT: This new video
from the anti-immigrant Sweden
Democrats opposition party shows
their
members on the refugees trail
urging would-be asylum seekers
to stay away. But these images
from Hyllie station send
a more powerful message.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Malcolm Brabant in Sweden.
GWEN IFILL: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
actress Juliette Binoche takes
on Greek tragedy; and honors
for a soldier who tackled a
suicide bomber and saved his
platoon.
But, first, how a simple
experiment in India has turned
into a radical idea, whether
students
should teach themselves by
giving them a computer and
stepping back.
Economics correspondent Paul
Solman reports, part of our
Making Sense series, which airs
every Thursday on
the "NewsHour."
STUDENT: Why do dogs chase cats?
PAUL SOLMAN: I have
absolutely no idea.
A public elementary school in
Harlem, New York, is adopting a
radical idea that threatens
the education industry as we
know it, SOLEs, Self-Organized
Learning Environments.
STUDENT: How do you
make a computer?
STUDENT: How come father
seahorses have babies, but the
females don't?
PAUL SOLMAN: The students come
up with the questions, and then
choose one to answer.
The man behind the idea, Sugata
Mitra, visiting from England.
SUGATA MITRA, Education Reform
Advocate: OK, so now here's
what's going to happen. Listen
carefully. You're going to work
with these six computers; the
question is, why do dogs
chase cats? And, of course, you
can talk as much as you like,
you can walk around, you
can move, you can look at other
people's work. You can do
whatever you like.
PAUL SOLMAN: A crowd of
onlookers in a nearby room,
waiting to know if, given six
computers
and just 20 minutes, these kids
can really self- organize and
learn the answer on their
own.
SUGATA MITRA: Do you have any
idea? I have never actually
thought about it. Of course,
everyone knows that
dogs chase cats.
PAUL SOLMAN: No. My guess is
cats are a symbol of something
they could eat, but don't eat?
I don't know. That's
my best shot.
Mitra's first experiment in
self-organized learning took
place years ago and far away,
at the turn of the 21st century
here in Delhi, where he worked
for a huge Indian software
firm.
Worried about information
poverty and the digital divide
between those who can afford
computers and those who can't,
Mitra simply cut a hole in the
boundary wall between his
firm and the fetid slum next
door and put in a computer,
connected to the Internet,
and watched.
SUGATA MITRA: I put it there and
we opened it, and by the same
evening, Vivek (ph), who
was doing the main observation,
came back and said that the kids
are browsing. And by
the second day, a whole bunch of
kids were browsing and doing
various functions.
PAUL SOLMAN: So Mitra built more
holes in more walls, 1,000 more,
in fact, which led
to more experiments,
and more questions.
SUGATA MITRA: The hole in the
wall experiment showed that
children can learn to use
computers
and the Internet on their own.
What else could they learn?
PAUL SOLMAN: Meanwhile, back in
Harlem, the kids are hard at it,
the clock ticking.
STUDENT: Well, cats are small
and even though they have nails,
dogs are like the males.
STUDENT: We should only try to
get the most correct answer.
STUDENT: He might injure the
cat by biting it too hard.
STUDENT: It says, others
preserve cats as prey.
STUDENT: A dog-cat fight
can be devastating.
STUDENTS: P-E-R-C-E-I-V-E.
STUDENT: Thank you.
STUDENT: Write it in your own
words. And we need to hurry up.
There's only seven minutes.
Let's concentrate.
ANNOUNCER: This is CNN.
The hole in the wall experiments
made Mitra famous, a star on the
stage, a threat to the
education industry as
the world knows it.
SUGATA MITRA: Could it be that
we don't need to go to school at
all? Could it be that at
the point in time when you need
to know something, you can find
out in two minutes? Could it
be that we're headed towards or
may be in a future where knowing
is obsolete?
PAUL SOLMAN: Knowing obsolete?
We don't need schools?
MIKE TRUCANO, Senior Education
and Technology Policy
Specialist, World Bank: I think
it's
irresponsible to say we
can do without teachers.
PAUL SOLMAN: Mike Trucano has
worked on global education
technology for the World Bank
for
20 years.
MIKE TRUCANO: The answer isn't
technology. The answer is
providing children with a rich
learning environment, with a
highly capable, competent,
committed teacher there
alongside
them to help guide
their learning.
Thinking that technology alone
and kids left to their own
devices can educate themselves
in the way that we hope and
become the types of people they
want to be, I think, is
ludicrous.
PAUL SOLMAN: In fact, Mitra has
adapted. Two years ago, he began
building schools in the
cloud. There are now seven, five
in India, two in the U.K., where
a teacher gets groups
of children to self-organize
into learning environments and
investigate almost anything,
SOLEs or, you might say,
holes in the classroom.
But this school's principal,
Natasha Spann, was still a
devout skeptic when she first
heard of Mitra's lab
for self-learning.
NATASHA SPANN, Principal,
PS-197: So, when I first heard
that, I said, get out of here.
(LAUGHTER)
NATASHA SPANN: And I said,
no, really, get out of here.
(LAUGHTER)
NATASHA SPANN: We were already
what was considered a focus
school, according to New York
state,
which was a failing school. So,
for me to pitch the idea to my
superintendent that I'm
going to completely get rid of
all of the desks and chairs in a
classroom and have kids
work together by themselves,
absent of the teacher, on
different levels, that was like,
I don't think so. That's
not happening here.
PAUL SOLMAN: Meanwhile, in this
classroom, time was running out,
the students finishing
up their findings, prepping
their conclusions.
STUDENT: Two minutes.
PAUL SOLMAN: It was time for
the final presentations.
SUGATA MITRA: Why do dogs chase
cats? Who would you like to make
the first presentation?
STUDENT: A dog can grab and
easily wound or kill the cat by
crushing her in his jaws.
STUDENT: He might injure a cat
by biting too hard even in play.
STUDENT: Like many things dogs
do, chasing cats is instinctual.
SUGATA MITRA: They are the first
group who are trying to explain
why.
STUDENT: Some want to play with
the cat. Others perceive cats as
prey and will harm a cat
if they catch her.
SUGATA MITRA: Do you see now
that every group actually was
adding to everybody else and
building up a whole
-- whole picture?
PAUL SOLMAN: Following the SOLE
demonstration, we had our own
question.
But it's got to be scary
to a lot of teachers, no?
SUIMANI MILLS, Teacher: When
I first did SOLE, so scary.
PAUL SOLMAN: Suimani
Mills teaches at PS-197.
SUIMANI MILLS: They utilized the
skills that we gave them without
our assistance.
PAUL SOLMAN: Leana Borges
also teaches here.
LEANA BORGES, Teacher: Those
critical thinking skills are
what students need teachers for.
That's what -- that's the
coaching that we do. And then
they apply those principles
within
the SOLE lab.
SUIMANI MILLS: This is the part
where you test yourself as a
teacher, and you have to
walk away from your garden and
let them flower and grow.
PAUL SOLMAN: As to the
school's skeptical principal:
NATASHA SPANN: Once I got to see
them actually in a session with
the question and the learning
that came out of it, I said, we
have to have this at my school.
ZINA BURTON-MYRICK, United
Federation of Teachers: I was
seriously surprised that there
wasn't
an adult saying, you go to this
group or you go to this group.
PAUL SOLMAN: But did union rep
Zina Burton-Myrick, here to
watch from the United Federation
of
Teachers, see a threat
to her profession?
ZINA BURTON-MYRICK: I would have
thought that it would have posed
a threat. But after seeing
it and looking at how useful a
program like this would be, I
think that it's something
that I would love to see in
other schools in the Harlem
community.
PAUL SOLMAN: So does
Sugata Mitra disagree?
Doesn't this threaten to destroy
one of the largest industries on
Earth?
SUGATA MITRA: Yes. If you're
talking about the education
industry, yes, they are under
threat. They are under threat
not of destruction, but of
imminent change. They'd better
do it
if they have to survive.
PAUL SOLMAN: So, is it the
beginning of a revolution?
MIKE TRUCANO: I think the jury's
still out. We see amazing things
happen from technology
use, but we also need to be a
bit sober in what's actually
possible and separating the
hope from the hype. Just because
something is new and different
doesn't necessarily make
it better.
PAUL SOLMAN: But for this group
of students, more than a third
classified as special needs,
fully half living in shelters,
all of them poor, self-learning
is new, different and
perhaps better as well.
STUDENT: Sometimes, when you're
stuck, a group -- your group can
help you out.
PAUL SOLMAN: From PS-197 in
Harlem, New York, this is
economics correspondent Paul
Solman,
reporting for the
"PBS NewsHour."
GWEN IFILL: President Obama
awarded the Medal of Honor today
to retired Army Captain Florent
Groberg for risking his life to
stop a suicide bomber in
Afghanistan.
The 32-year-old French-born
soldier, who often goes by Flo,
is just the 10th living service
member to receive the nation's
highest military honor for
actions in Afghanistan or Iraq.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States: And so it was on
an August day three years
ago that Flo found himself
leading a group of American and
Afghan soldiers as they escorted
their commanders to a
meeting with local Afghans.
It was a journey that the team
had done many times before -- a
short walk on foot, including
passage over a narrow bridge.
Flo noticed something to his
left -- a man, dressed in dark
clothing, walking backwards,
just some 10 feet away. The man
spun around and turned toward
them, and that's when Flo
sprinted toward him. He pushed
him away from the formation, and
as he did, he noticed an
object under the man's
clothing -- a bomb.
And at that moment, Flo did
something extraordinary -- he
grabbed the bomber by his vest
and kept
pushing him away.
One of Flo's comrades, Sergeant
Andrew Mahoney, had joined in,
too, and together they shoved
the bomber again and again. And
they pushed him so hard he fell
to the ground onto his
chest. And then the
bomb detonated.
Ball bearings, debris, dust
exploded everywhere. Flo was
thrown some 15 or 20 feet and
was
knocked unconscious. And moments
later, he woke up in the middle
of the road in shock.
His eardrum was blown out. His
leg was broken and bleeding
badly.
That blast by the bridge claimed
four American heroes -- four
heroes Flo wants us to remember
today.
One of his mentors, a 24-year
Army vet, Command Sergeant Major
Kevin Griffin.
A West Pointer who loved hockey
and became a role model to
cadets and troops because
he always cared more about other
people than himself, Major Tom
Kennedy.
A popular Air Force leader known
for smiling with his whole face,
Major David Gray.
And, finally, a USAID foreign
service officer, a man who moved
to the United States from
Egypt and reveled in everything
American, Ragaei Abdelfattah.
We honor Flo because his actions
prevented an even greater
catastrophe. You see, by pushing
the bomber away from the
formation, the explosion
occurred farther from our
forces, and on the
ground instead of in the open
air. And while Flo didn't know
it at the time, that explosion
also caused a second, unseen
bomb to detonate before it was
in place.
The truth is, Flo says that day
was the worst day of his life.
And that is the stark reality
behind these Medal of Honor
ceremonies, because on his very
worst day, he managed to summon
his very best. That's the nature
of courage, not being unafraid,
but confronting fear and
danger and performing
in a selfless fashion.
He showed his guts. He showed
his training, how he would put
it all on the line for his
teammates. That's an American
we can all be grateful for.
It's why we honor Captain
Florent Groberg today.
MAN: The president of the United
States of America, authorized by
act of Congress, March
3, 1863, has awarded in the name
of Congress the Medal of Honor
to Captain Florent A. Groberg,
United States Army.
(APPLAUSE)
CAPT. FLORENT GROBERG, U.S.
Army: This medal is the greatest
honor you could ever receive.
And I am blessed and just
grateful to have been given the
opportunity to serve my country.
But this medal belongs to the
true heroes, Command Sergeant
Griffin, Major Gray, Major
Kennedy, and Ragaei Abdelfattah,
who made the ultimate sacrifice
and didn't come home.
It also belongs to their
families, the true heroes who
live with that day every day
missing
one of the key members
of their families.
So I'm honored. I'm overwhelmed,
but I hope to become the right
carrier for them and better
myself as a human being for
the rest of my life for them.
GWEN IFILL: She's one of the
most well-known French actresses
of her generation, and she
has carved an unusual and
distinct career path.
Juliette Binoche has appeared in
more than 40 feature films, the
latest of which, "The
33," opens tomorrow. It's about
the 33 Chilean miners who were
trapped underground for 69
days in 2010.
At the same time, Binoche is
focused on new stage work,
taking on the role of a
classical
heroine in a Greek tragedy.
She sat down recently
with Jeffrey Brown.
ACTOR: If a man puts family or
friends ahead of fatherland, I
count him absolutely good
for nothing.
JEFFREY BROWN: A political
leader, King Creon, declares
that the security of the state
must
take precedence over individual
need, and orders that the body
of a slain rebel not
be given burial rites.
ACTOR: You dare to
disobey the law?
JULIETTE BINOCHE, Actress: What
they call law didn't begin today
or yesterday. When
they say law, they do not
mean a statute of today.
JEFFREY BROWN: The rebel's
sister, named Antigone, and
played here by Juliette Binoche,
defies
that order and buries her
brother, leading to her own
death.
JULIETTE BINOCHE: She has this
need of remembering where we
come from, the origin of where
we
come from, and where
we're going back to.
So the play is an immense -- is
reaching immense subjects of
what we go through.
JEFFREY BROWN: The playwright
Sophocles wrote Antigone in
Athens, Greece, some 2,500 years
ago, and it has resonated with
audiences and actors ever since,
including Binoche, one
of today's leading
international actresses.
At the Kennedy Center in
Washington, D.C., she recently
wrapped up a tour of the play
that took her to cities
around Europe and the U.S.
So what is the attraction for
you to do an ancient play like
this?
JULIETTE BINOCHE: Well, because
the myths put you into a
teaching of what is -- what
are we doing here on this Earth?
It's about transformation
JEFFREY BROWN: That's
a big question.
JULIETTE BINOCHE: It's a big
question, but we here, all --
all of us, we're trying to
find out. And, of course, the
outside world wants us to go
here and there and spread
ourselves.
But somehow we have to make a
relationship within ourselves.
And plays and art are helping
to make this link, to think,
to feel, to reconnect.
ACTOR: You're in love
with him aren't you?
JULIETTE BINOCHE: I'm not in
love with him. I am in love with
ghosts. It's so easy. He's
another ghost.
JEFFREY BROWN: Binoche, now 51,
is best known for her
Oscar-winning supporting actress
role
in the 1996 film "The
English Patient."
JULIETTE BINOCHE: And these are
for your husband, and refined
cacao nibs from Guatemala to
awaken
the passion.
ACTRESS: You have obviously
never met my husband.
JULIETTE BINOCHE: You have
obviously never tried these.
JEFFREY BROWN: And an
Oscar-nominated best actress
performance in the 2000 comedy
"Chocolat."
She's had a prolific movie
career, from big budget hits to
obscure art house films, that
continues, as strong as ever, to
this day. But she's also
regularly gone back to the
theater.
JULIETTE BINOCHE: It's true.
Sometimes, I say yes to a
project, and I don't really know
why I said yes. But the
intuition tells you.
JEFFREY BROWN: Really?
You don't know why?
JULIETTE BINOCHE: No. The
intuition tells you, so that the
intuition brings you into
this unknown. But yet, as you're
going and you're discovering
what you're doing, this
is it. This is why I said yes to
it. And it suddenly becomes very
meaningful.
Look at what is happening to me,
and look at the men who are
doing it.
JEFFREY BROWN: The production of
"Antigone" directed by Ivo van
Hove was a spare one in
its language, its
movement, its set.
I asked Binoche if she liked the
quiet of this onstage world as a
contrast to the noise
of much of today's
entertainment.
JULIETTE BINOCHE: I
love everything.
JEFFREY BROWN: You
love everything?
JULIETTE BINOCHE: I don't put
things aside. No, I think it's
another -- it's like painting.
You know, you love different
styles, because it shows
someone's need to express
something.
If I feel the need, that's
beyond style. I don't care where
it comes from, which country,
what period, because
it has truth.
JEFFREY BROWN: The reference to
painting is a personal one.
Binoche did her own paintings
for a film in which she played
an artist, and has even had
exhibitions of her work.
Curious or restless, she's
thrown herself into all kinds of
things, including performing
on stage in contemporary dance.
JULIETTE BINOCHE: I like to
confront myself with new
perspectives and possibilities,
because
I think, we're alive, so let's
do it now. And we have so many
possibilities. So, I don't
like to stay in one
comfortable place.
JEFFREY BROWN: There is much
discussion, again, about --
especially about women actresses
aging, not getting as many good
roles, what happens to them. Do
you even think about that?
JULIETTE BINOCHE: I think if you
keep yourself creative -- I
mean, I have aged, you know?
I have had experience. And so
it's not as if I'm not facing
it.
But it's not a fear, because
time is a tool to grow. If you
don't have that tool, how
can you grow? How can you
transform? So you have to
believe that time is your best
friend.
Imagine if you have to die when
you're young. You feel like,
wow. What I have learned with
time is amazing.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right,
Juliette Binoche, thank you so
much.
JULIETTE BINOCHE: Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: Finally tonight,
another installment in our
series of "NewsHour" essays.
Essays are part of a long
tradition on the "NewsHour," and
in the coming weeks and months,
we hope to bring you a range of
voices as varied as the ideas
they will share with you.
Tonight, author Ylonda Gault
shares her view on a
particularly challenging
personality:
the bragging parent.
YLONDA GAULT, Author: It will
start innocently, a chance
run-in.
I will see a fellow mom at the
grocery store or the park, maybe
a coffee shop. I will say,
hey, girl. We will hug. At least
I will, because I'm a hugger.
I will compliment her outfit.
She may notice my new
highlights. We will trade
innocent
gossip. I will ask about her
work, then the family, to which
she will respond with a sigh,
as though fatigued, because, for
moms, every season touts tired
as the new black.
Thus begins the humble brag,
feigning exasperation. Said mom
will half-giggle and wax
self-mocking.
Well, Sophie scored 2,200 on her
MDNM SATs, despite this slacker
mom, who forgot to get
new calculator batteries. And
Zach's fourth grade teacher
recommended him for advanced
calculus.
Meanwhile, his dad and I don't
still get new math, old math, or
even everyday math. These
kids, I tell you.
A wan smile will wash over my
face. It's the expression I
usually reserve for my
8-year-old
when he's regaling with my
intricate details of obscure
superheroes and their powers.
When she laughs and throws her
head back, I do the same thing
on the outside. Inside,
I wince, and whisper to myself,
bless her heart, as momma would
say.
For black people, those sweet
little words are a nice way of
saying, how pitiful.
It's a gracious phrase, and I
mean it in the best possible
way, because a part of me truly
aches to see a grown woman,
smart and accomplished in her
own right, boasting about her
children
as though they were prized
heifers at the county fair.
And it's odd to me, because,
growing up, momma always played
down what my siblings and I
did. It may be a black thing,
but I think it's also an
old-school thing. No one wanted
their kids to get too
big-headed, I suppose.
Importantly, parenting wasn't an
extreme sport back in the day.
And, remember, there was
no Facebook. Social media posts
are the lifeblood of the humble
braggart.
I get it. They feel less secure
in their own worth, so tethered
are the kiddos to their
own self-image, the offsprings'
accomplishments become their
own.
Intellectually, I know most
studies will show that mothers
and fathers hell-bent on this
image of perfection desperately
need the world to take note of
their kids' awesomeness. It's
a way of saying, see, my kids
are great. Therefore, I am
great. Look at me. See? I'm a
great parent.
Really, I am.
Do they believe it? Sadly, I
don't think so. It's not that
these parents don't have good
kids. I mean, all kids are good,
right, just like all babies are
-- ahem -- cute.
See, all moms lie. As the humble
braggart prattles on, I pretend
to listen. And when
she's done, I put on my best
girlfriend face and try to sound
super astonished. I say,
wow. Go, you.
GWEN IFILL: On the "NewsHour"
online: Earlier this week, we
introduced you to a man who's
walking around the world. Paul
Salopek isn't trying to set a
record. He's walking to tell
the stories of the people and
places he encounters along the
way.
He's already logged about 4,000
miles. What's it like? You can
ask him yourself at 1:00
p.m. Eastern tomorrow on our
Twitter chat with National
Geographic. Details are on our
home page.
And 65 years after Charles
Schulz introduced the world to
Charlie Brown, the gang is
reunited
on the big screen in the form of
"The Peanuts Movie." To
celebrate, we have compiled
eight
things you didn't know about
Snoopy and the gang. That's on
our home page, PBS.org/NewsHour.
Tune in later tonight on
"Charlie Rose": more on the
fight against ISIS in Iraq and
efforts
to reclaim a key city.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight. I'm Gwen Ifill.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening with Mark
Shields and Michael Gerson.
For all of us here at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank you, and good
night.